## Extrinsics

_The following sections contain Extrinsics methods are part of the default Substrate runtime._
- **[balances](#balances)**

- **[consensus](#consensus)**

- **[contract](#contract)**

- **[council](#council)**

- **[councilMotions](#councilMotions)**

- **[democracy](#democracy)**

- **[](#)**

- **[grandpaFinality](#grandpaFinality)**

- **[session](#session)**

- **[staking](#staking)**

- **[sudo](#sudo)**

- **[timestamp](#timestamp)**

- **[treasury](#treasury)**


___


### balances

▸ **setBalance**(who: `Address`, free: `Compact<Balance>`, reserved: `Compact<Balance>`)
- **summary**:   Set the balances of a given account.   This will alter `FreeBalance` and `ReservedBalance` in storage.  If the new free or reserved balance is below the existential deposit,  it will also decrease the total issuance of the system (`TotalIssuance`)  and reset the account nonce (`system::AccountNonce`).   The dispatch origin for this call is `root`.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments.  - Contains a limited number of reads and writes.  # </weight>

▸ **transfer**(dest: `Address`, value: `Compact<Balance>`)
- **summary**:   Transfer some liquid free balance to another account.   `transfer` will set the `FreeBalance` of the sender and receiver.  It will decrease the total issuance of the system by the `TransferFee`.  If the sender's account is below the existential deposit as a result  of the transfer, the account will be reaped.   The dispatch origin for this call must be `Signed` by the transactor.   # <weight>  - Dependent on arguments but not critical, given proper implementations for    input config types. See related functions below.  - It contains a limited number of reads and writes internally and no complex computation.   Related functions:     - `ensure_can_withdraw` is always called internally but has a bounded complexity.    - Transferring balances to accounts that did not exist before will cause       `T::OnNewAccount::on_new_account` to be called.    - Removing enough funds from an account will trigger      `T::DustRemoval::on_unbalanced` and `T::OnFreeBalanceZero::on_free_balance_zero`.   # </weight>

___


### consensus

▸ **killStorage**(keys: `Vec<Key>`)
- **summary**:   Kill some items from storage.

▸ **noteOffline**(offline: `InherentOfflineReport`)
- **summary**:   Note that the previous block's validator missed its opportunity to propose a block.

▸ **remark**(_remark: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Make some on-chain remark.

▸ **reportMisbehavior**(_report: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Report some misbehavior.

▸ **setCode**(new: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Set the new code.

▸ **setHeapPages**(pages: `u64`)
- **summary**:   Set the number of pages in the WebAssembly environment's heap.

▸ **setStorage**(items: `Vec<KeyValue>`)
- **summary**:   Set some items of storage.

___


### contract

▸ **call**(dest: `Address`, value: `Compact<BalanceOf>`, gas_limit: `Compact<Gas>`, data: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Makes a call to an account, optionally transferring some balance.   * If the account is a smart-contract account, the associated code will be  executed and any value will be transferred.  * If the account is a regular account, any value will be transferred.  * If no account exists and the call value is not less than `existential_deposit`,  a regular account will be created and any value will be transferred.

▸ **claimSurcharge**(dest: `AccountId`, aux_sender: `Option<AccountId>`)
- **summary**:   Allows block producers to claim a small reward for evicting a contract. If a block producer  fails to do so, a regular users will be allowed to claim the reward.   If contract is not evicted as a result of this call, no actions are taken and  the sender is not eligible for the reward.

▸ **create**(endowment: `Compact<BalanceOf>`, gas_limit: `Compact<Gas>`, code_hash: `CodeHash`, data: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Creates a new contract from the `codehash` generated by `put_code`, optionally transferring some balance.   Creation is executed as follows:   - The destination address is computed based on the sender and hash of the code.  - The smart-contract account is created at the computed address.  - The `ctor_code` is executed in the context of the newly-created account. Buffer returned    after the execution is saved as the `code` of the account. That code will be invoked    upon any call received by this account.  - The contract is initialized.

▸ **putCode**(gas_limit: `Compact<Gas>`, code: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Stores the given binary Wasm code into the chain's storage and returns its `codehash`.  You can instantiate contracts only with stored code.

▸ **restoreTo**(dest: `AccountId`, code_hash: `CodeHash`, rent_allowance: `BalanceOf`, delta: `Vec<ContractStorageKey>`)
- **summary**:   Allows a contract to restore a tombstone by giving its storage.   The contract that wants to restore (i.e. origin of the call, or `msg.sender` in Solidity terms) will compute a  tombstone with its storage and the given code_hash. If the computed tombstone  match the destination one, the destination contract is restored with the rent_allowance` specified,  while the origin sends all its funds to the destination and is removed.

▸ **updateSchedule**(schedule: `Schedule`)
- **summary**:   Updates the schedule for metering contracts.   The schedule must have a greater version than the stored schedule.

___


### council

▸ **presentWinner**(candidate: `Address`, total: `Compact<BalanceOf>`, index: `Compact<VoteIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Claim that `signed` is one of the top Self::carry_count() + current_vote().1 candidates.  Only works if the `block_number >= current_vote().0` and `< current_vote().0 + presentation_duration()`  `signed` should have at least   # <weight>  - O(voters) compute.  - One DB change.  # </weight>

▸ **proxySetApprovals**(votes: `Vec<bool>`, index: `Compact<VoteIndex>`, hint: `SetIndex`)
- **summary**:   Set candidate approvals from a proxy. Approval slots stay valid as long as candidates in those slots  are registered.   # <weight>  - Same as `set_approvals` with one additional storage read.  # </weight>

▸ **reapInactiveVoter**(reporter_index: `Compact<u32>`, who: `Address`, who_index: `Compact<u32>`, assumed_vote_index: `Compact<VoteIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Remove a voter. For it not to be a bond-consuming no-op, all approved candidate indices  must now be either unregistered or registered to a candidate that registered the slot after  the voter gave their last approval set.   Both indices must be provided as explained in [`voter_at`] function.   May be called by anyone. Returns the voter deposit to `signed`.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Two fewer DB entries, one DB change.  # </weight>

▸ **removeMember**(who: `Address`)
- **summary**:   Remove a particular member from the council. This is effective immediately.   Note: A tally should happen instantly (if not already in a presentation  period) to fill the seat if removal means that the desired members are not met.

▸ **retractVoter**(index: `Compact<u32>`)
- **summary**:   Remove a voter. All votes are cancelled and the voter deposit is returned.   The index must be provided as explained in [`voter_at`] function.   Also removes the lock on the balance of the voter. See [`do_set_approvals()`].   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Two fewer DB entries, one DB change.  # </weight>

▸ **setApprovals**(votes: `Vec<bool>`, index: `Compact<VoteIndex>`, hint: `SetIndex`)
- **summary**:   Set candidate approvals. Approval slots stay valid as long as candidates in those slots  are registered.   Locks the total balance of caller indefinitely.  Only [`retract_voter`] or [`reap_inactive_voter`] can unlock the balance.   `hint` argument is interpreted differently based on:  - if `origin` is setting approvals for the first time: The index will be checked  for being a valid _hole_ in the voter list.    - if the hint is correctly pointing to a hole, no fee is deducted from `origin`.    - Otherwise, the call will succeed but the index is ignored and simply a push to the last chunk    with free space happens. If the new push causes a new chunk to be created, a fee indicated by    [`VotingFee`] is deducted.  - if `origin` is already a voter: the index __must__ be valid and point to the correct  position of the `origin` in the current voters list.   Note that any trailing `false` votes in `votes` is ignored; In approval voting, not voting for a candidate  and voting false, are equal.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Two extra DB entries, one DB change.  - Argument `votes` is limited in length to number of candidates.  # </weight>

▸ **setDesiredSeats**(count: `Compact<u32>`)
- **summary**:   Set the desired member count; if lower than the current count, then seats will not be up  election when they expire. If more, then a new vote will be started if one is not  already in progress.

▸ **setPresentationDuration**(count: `Compact<BlockNumber>`)
- **summary**:   Set the presentation duration. If there is currently a vote being presented for, will  invoke `finalize_vote`.

▸ **setTermDuration**(count: `Compact<BlockNumber>`)
- **summary**:   Set the presentation duration. If there is current a vote being presented for, will  invoke `finalize_vote`.

▸ **submitCandidacy**(slot: `Compact<u32>`)
- **summary**:   Submit oneself for candidacy.   Account must have enough transferrable funds in it to pay the bond.   NOTE: if `origin` has already assigned approvals via [`set_approvals`],  it will NOT have any usable funds to pass candidacy bond and must first retract.  Note that setting approvals will lock the entire balance of the voter until  retraction or being reported.   # <weight>  - Independent of input.  - Three DB changes.  # </weight>

___


### councilMotions

▸ **execute**(proposal: `Proposal`)
- **summary**:   Dispatch a proposal from a councilor using the `Member` origin.   Origin must be a council member.

▸ **propose**(threshold: `Compact<MemberCount>`, proposal: `Proposal`)
- **summary**:   # <weight>  - Bounded storage reads and writes.  - Argument `threshold` has bearing on weight.  # </weight>

▸ **vote**(proposal: `Hash`, index: `Compact<ProposalIndex>`, approve: `bool`)
- **summary**:   # <weight>  - Bounded storage read and writes.  - Will be slightly heavier if the proposal is approved / disapproved after the vote.  # </weight>

___


### democracy

▸ **cancelQueued**(when: `Compact<BlockNumber>`, which: `Compact<u32>`, what: `Compact<ReferendumIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Cancel a proposal queued for enactment.

▸ **cancelReferendum**(ref_index: `Compact<ReferendumIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Remove a referendum.

▸ **delegate**(to: `AccountId`, conviction: `Conviction`)
- **summary**:   Delegate vote.   # <weight>  - One extra DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **emergencyCancel**(ref_index: `ReferendumIndex`)
- **summary**:   Schedule an emergency cancellation of a referendum. Cannot happen twice to the same  referendum.

▸ **emergencyPropose**(proposal: `Proposal`, threshold: `VoteThreshold`, voting_period: `BlockNumber`, delay: `BlockNumber`)
- **summary**:   Schedule an emergency referendum.   This will create a new referendum for the `proposal`, approved as long as counted votes  exceed `threshold` and, if approved, enacted after the given `delay`.   It may be called from either the Root or the Emergency origin.

▸ **externalPropose**(proposal: `Proposal`)
- **summary**:   Schedule a referendum to be tabled once it is legal to schedule an external  referendum.

▸ **externalProposeMajority**(proposal: `Proposal`)
- **summary**:   Schedule a majority-carries referendum to be tabled next once it is legal to schedule  an external referendum.

▸ **propose**(proposal: `Proposal`, value: `Compact<BalanceOf>`)
- **summary**:   Propose a sensitive action to be taken.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Two DB changes, one DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **proxyVote**(ref_index: `Compact<ReferendumIndex>`, vote: `Vote`)
- **summary**:   Vote in a referendum on behalf of a stash. If `vote.is_aye()`, the vote is to enact  the proposal;  otherwise it is a vote to keep the status quo.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - One DB change, one DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **removeProxy**(proxy: `AccountId`)
- **summary**:   Clear the proxy. Called by the stash.   # <weight>  - One DB clear.  # </weight>

▸ **resignProxy**()
- **summary**:   Clear the proxy. Called by the proxy.   # <weight>  - One DB clear.  # </weight>

▸ **second**(proposal: `Compact<PropIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Propose a sensitive action to be taken.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - One DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **setProxy**(proxy: `AccountId`)
- **summary**:   Specify a proxy. Called by the stash.   # <weight>  - One extra DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **undelegate**()
- **summary**:   Undelegate vote.   # <weight>  - O(1).  # </weight>

▸ **vetoExternal**(proposal_hash: `Hash`)
- **summary**:   Veto and blacklist the external proposal hash.

▸ **vote**(ref_index: `Compact<ReferendumIndex>`, vote: `Vote`)
- **summary**:   Vote in a referendum. If `vote.is_aye()`, the vote is to enact the proposal;  otherwise it is a vote to keep the status quo.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - One DB change, one DB entry.  # </weight>

___


### 

▸ **finalHint**(hint: `Compact<BlockNumber>`)
- **summary**:   Hint that the author of this block thinks the best finalized  block is the given number.

___


### grandpaFinality

▸ **reportMisbehavior**(_report: `Bytes`)
- **summary**:   Report some misbehavior.

___


### session

▸ **forceNewSession**(apply_rewards: `bool`)
- **summary**:   Forces a new session.   Dispatch origin of this call must be _root_.

▸ **setKey**(key: `SessionKey`)
- **summary**:   Sets the session key of the function caller to `key`.  Allows an account to set its session key prior to becoming a validator.  This doesn't take effect until the next session.   The dispatch origin of this function must be signed.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - One extra DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **setLength**(new: `Compact<BlockNumber>`)
- **summary**:   Set a new session length. Won't kick in until the next session change (at current length).   Dispatch origin of this call must be _root_.

___


### staking

▸ **bond**(controller: `Address`, value: `Compact<BalanceOf>`, payee: `RewardDestination`)
- **summary**:   Take the origin account as a stash and lock up `value` of its balance. `controller` will be the  account that controls it.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the stash account.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Moderate complexity.  - O(1).  - Three extra DB entries.   NOTE: Two of the storage writes (`Self::bonded`, `Self::payee`) are _never_ cleaned unless  the `origin` falls below _existential deposit_ and gets removed as dust.   NOTE: At the moment, there are no financial restrictions to bond  (which creates a bunch of storage items for an account). In essence, nothing prevents many accounts from  spamming `Staking` storage by bonding 1 UNIT. See test case: `bond_with_no_staked_value`.  # </weight>

▸ **bondExtra**(max_additional: `Compact<BalanceOf>`)
- **summary**:   Add some extra amount that have appeared in the stash `free_balance` into the balance up for  staking.   Use this if there are additional funds in your stash account that you wish to bond.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the stash, not the controller.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Insignificant complexity.  - O(1).  - One DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **chill**()
- **summary**:   Declare no desire to either validate or nominate.   Effects will be felt at the beginning of the next era.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the controller, not the stash.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Insignificant complexity.  - Contains one read.  - Writes are limited to the `origin` account key.  # </weight>

▸ **forceNewEra**(apply_rewards: `bool`)
- **summary**:   Force there to be a new era. This also forces a new session immediately after.  `apply_rewards` should be true for validators to get the session reward.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments.  - Triggers the Phragmen election. Expensive but not user-controlled.  - Depends on state: `O(|edges| * |validators|)`.  # </weight>

▸ **nominate**(targets: `Vec<Address>`)
- **summary**:   Declare the desire to nominate `targets` for the origin controller.   Effects will be felt at the beginning of the next era.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the controller, not the stash.   # <weight>  - The transaction's complexity is proportional to the size of `targets`,  which is capped at `MAX_NOMINATIONS`.  - Both the reads and writes follow a similar pattern.  # </weight>

▸ **setBondingDuration**(new: `Compact<BlockNumber>`)
- **summary**:   The length of the bonding duration in eras.

▸ **setController**(controller: `Address`)
- **summary**:   (Re-)set the payment target for a controller.   Effects will be felt at the beginning of the next era.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the stash, not the controller.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Insignificant complexity.  - Contains a limited number of reads.  - Writes are limited to the `origin` account key.  # </weight>

▸ **setInvulnerables**(validators: `Vec<AccountId>`)
- **summary**:   Set the validators who cannot be slashed (if any).

▸ **setOfflineSlashGrace**(new: `Compact<u32>`)
- **summary**:   Set the offline slash grace period.

▸ **setPayee**(payee: `RewardDestination`)
- **summary**:   (Re-)set the payment target for a controller.   Effects will be felt at the beginning of the next era.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the controller, not the stash.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Insignificant complexity.  - Contains a limited number of reads.  - Writes are limited to the `origin` account key.  # </weight>

▸ **setSessionsPerEra**(new: `Compact<BlockNumber>`)
- **summary**:   Set the number of sessions in an era.

▸ **setValidatorCount**(new: `Compact<u32>`)
- **summary**:   The ideal number of validators.

▸ **unbond**(value: `Compact<BalanceOf>`)
- **summary**:   Schedule a portion of the stash to be unlocked ready for transfer out after the bond  period ends. If this leaves an amount actively bonded less than  T::Currency::existential_deposit(), then it is increased to the full amount.   Once the unlock period is done, you can call `withdraw_unbonded` to actually move  the funds out of management ready for transfer.   No more than a limited number of unlocking chunks (see `MAX_UNLOCKING_CHUNKS`)  can co-exists at the same time. In that case, [`Call::withdraw_unbonded`] need  to be called first to remove some of the chunks (if possible).   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the controller, not the stash.   See also [`Call::withdraw_unbonded`].   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Limited but potentially exploitable complexity.  - Contains a limited number of reads.  - Each call (requires the remainder of the bonded balance to be above `minimum_balance`)    will cause a new entry to be inserted into a vector (`Ledger.unlocking`) kept in storage.    The only way to clean the aforementioned storage item is also user-controlled via `withdraw_unbonded`.  - One DB entry.  </weight>

▸ **validate**(prefs: `ValidatorPrefs`)
- **summary**:   Declare the desire to validate for the origin controller.   Effects will be felt at the beginning of the next era.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the controller, not the stash.   # <weight>  - Independent of the arguments. Insignificant complexity.  - Contains a limited number of reads.  - Writes are limited to the `origin` account key.  # </weight>

▸ **withdrawUnbonded**()
- **summary**:   Remove any unlocked chunks from the `unlocking` queue from our management.   This essentially frees up that balance to be used by the stash account to do  whatever it wants.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_ by the controller, not the stash.   See also [`Call::unbond`].   # <weight>  - Could be dependent on the `origin` argument and how much `unlocking` chunks exist. It implies    `consolidate_unlocked` which loops over `Ledger.unlocking`, which is indirectly    user-controlled. See [`unbond`] for more detail.  - Contains a limited number of reads, yet the size of which could be large based on `ledger`.  - Writes are limited to the `origin` account key.  # </weight>

___


### sudo

▸ **setKey**(new: `Address`)
- **summary**:   Authenticates the current sudo key and sets the given AccountId (`new`) as the new sudo key.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Limited storage reads.  - One DB change.  # </weight>

▸ **sudo**(proposal: `Proposal`)
- **summary**:   Authenticates the sudo key and dispatches a function call with `Root` origin.   The dispatch origin for this call must be _Signed_.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Limited storage reads.  - No DB writes.  # </weight>

___


### timestamp

▸ **set**(now: `Compact<Moment>`)
- **summary**:   Set the current time.   This call should be invoked exactly once per block. It will panic at the finalization phase,  if this call hasn't been invoked by that time.   The timestamp should be greater than the previous one by the amount specified by `minimum_period`.   The dispatch origin for this call must be `Inherent`.

___


### treasury

▸ **approveProposal**(proposal_id: `Compact<ProposalIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Approve a proposal. At a later time, the proposal will be allocated to the beneficiary  and the original deposit will be returned.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Limited storage reads.  - One DB change.  # </weight>

▸ **configure**(proposal_bond: `Compact<Permill>`, proposal_bond_minimum: `Compact<BalanceOf>`, spend_period: `Compact<BlockNumber>`, burn: `Compact<Permill>`)
- **summary**:   (Re-)configure this module.

▸ **proposeSpend**(value: `Compact<BalanceOf>`, beneficiary: `Address`)
- **summary**:   Put forward a suggestion for spending. A deposit proportional to the value  is reserved and slashed if the proposal is rejected. It is returned once the  proposal is awarded.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Limited storage reads.  - One DB change, one extra DB entry.  # </weight>

▸ **rejectProposal**(proposal_id: `Compact<ProposalIndex>`)
- **summary**:   Reject a proposed spend. The original deposit will be slashed.   # <weight>  - O(1).  - Limited storage reads.  - One DB clear.  # </weight>

▸ **setPot**(new_pot: `Compact<BalanceOf>`)
- **summary**:   Set the balance of funds available to spend.
